# Notícias da Covilhã @ Arquivo Web
This repository contains the project ***ArquivoNC -- Notícias da Covilhã @ Arquivo Web*** developed as part of the final Bsc. project in the 1st cicle of *Engenharia Informática* at UBI.

# Abstract
Around 80% of websites change significantly or disappear altogether after the first year, resulting in the loss of invaluable information. In this volatile scenario, the preservation of online content is becoming increasingly necessary. Notícias da Covilhã, a century-old newspaper, faced this problem. With the end of its weekly print edition and the disappearance of the previous version of its website in 2019, a decade of information seemed lost to forever, at least for the general public.
ArquivoNC, the web archive of the newspaper Notícias da Covilhã, came as a response to tackle this problem of digital preservation. To cope with this, we collected a decade of news articles, front-covers and images from the newspaper Notícias da Covilhã, preserved by the Arquivo.pt, the Portuguese web archive, between 2009 and 2019. This endeavor resulted in 2661 news articles, 372 front-covers, and 1327 images collected and made available through an online website developed to allow journalists, historians and the general public to recover access to a set of past information that is no longer available in the current version of the website of the Notícias da Covilhã. By developing this project, we aim to preserve the digital memory of the city of Covilhã and the legacy of the newspaper by making its historical content easily accessible to everyone.
The architecture of this project rests on three different modules: (1) Information Extraction; (2) Information Retrieval and Recommendation; and (3) Web Development and Hosting. For the Information Extraction process, we automated the extraction of data from the Arquivo.pt infra-structure, further enriched with information extracted by using state-of-the-art NLP tools, as is the case of YAKE! and Spacy. The information collected was then indexed on Redis NoSQL database through an inverted index schema where each term is represented by TF.IDF (Term Frequency - Inverse Document Frequency) weights. This Information Retrieval traditional approach allows users to search for news articles, front-covers, and images that contain a specific term (or set of terms) within a certain period of time. Each news article is also represented and stored on Redis, through a 512-dimensional vector generated by BERTimbau, a pre-trained BERT model for Brazilian Portuguese. Such semantic representation is one of the core features behind the recommendation of similar past news articles.
For the website development, we resort to the Flask framework. Having implemented ARIA metrics and an article reading feature (through the application of a text to speech algorithm to each news articles), we ensure that the website is accessible to all. Finally, we virtualize this architecture through a Docker instance, making this website available in a Linux server through the following URL: https://arquivonc.ubi.pt. By accessing the website, users can, not only access historical information from X years ago, but also search for news articles, images, and newspaper front-covers. Additionally, they can subscribe to a weekly newsletter that aims to inform them about the most relevant news occurred X years ago in that given week.
Future work includes developing a generative summary to complement the newsletter and enhancing image similarity precision using computer vision techniques.
